# 11.020 Recap

## Terms

- **Caller**: The function that initiates a call to another function.
- **Callee**: The function being called by the caller.  Sometimes also called the "**called** function".
## System V AMD64 ABI Calling Convention

The [System V AMD64 ABI](https://refspecs.linuxbase.org/elf/x86_64-abi-0.99.pdf) (Application Binary Interface) is the standard calling convention used on Unix-like operating systems (such as Linux and mac OS) for x86-64 architecture. It defines how functions receive parameters from the caller, how return values are passed back, and how the stack is managed during function calls.

## Parameters are passed in registers (and the stack)

In the x86-64 calling convention, the first six integer or pointer parameters to a function are passed in specific registers:
- 1st parameter: RDI
- 2nd parameter: RSI
- 3rd parameter: RDX
- 4th parameter: RCX
- 5th parameter: R8
- 6th parameter: R9

If there are more than six parameters, the additional parameters are passed on the stack.

# Return values are passed in registers
Function return values are typically passed back to the caller using specific registers:
- For integer or pointer return values, the RAX register is used.

## We need to protect the caller's environment

Functions can change the values in registers.  

### Caller-Saved Registers 

Registers like %rax, %rcx, %rdx, %rsi, %rdi, %r8, %r9, %r10, and %r11 are considered caller-saved. This means the calling function is responsible for saving their values before a function call if it needs them after the call.

#### From the text of the ABI:

> Registers %rbp, %rbx and %r12 through %r15 “belong” to the calling function and the called function is required to preserve their values. In other words, a called function must preserve these registers’ values for its caller
### Callee-Saved Registers

Registers such as %rbp, %rbx, %r12, %r13, %r14, and %r15 are callee-saved. The called function is responsible for preserving their values (e.g., by pushing them onto the stack at the beginning and popping them off before returning) if it modifies them.

#### From the text of the ABI:

> Remaining registers “belong” to the called function. If a calling function wants to preserve such a register value across a function call, it must save the value in its local stack frame
