# 00.100 Installing Software on Linux

## Operating System 

You are Computer Science or Cybersecurity majors.  I think you should be able to make choices about your development environment.  We will be using Linux.  Most of the newer Assembly Language books seem to be using Linux rather than Windows.  There are a growing number of problems trying to run assembly programs on Windows, especially with Windows 11.

You do have choices in how you run Linux.

* My recommended method is to install Linux on an old laptop or desktop.  Linux will run on old, outdated hardware.  The only hardware requirement is that the system be 64 bit.  This means almost any old Windows laptop or desktop from the last 20 years will probably work for this course.  Your old high school laptop should work.  Aunt Martha's old computer will probably work as long as it seems to power on.  
* You may use Windows and run Windows Subsystem for Linux.  I suspect this is the second best option.
* The author of the book has built a Docker container that will run on Windows or a Mac (or on Linux, for that matter).  Appendix A explains how to use the Docker container.  The advantage of this system is that the basic software you need is installed in the Docker container.  You may load Docker from the Microsoft Store, and then follow the instructions in Appendix A.

### Recommended Distributions of Linux

Any of the major distributions of Linux should work.  Most of the minor ones probably work as well.  

If you do not already have Linux running, I recommend staying away from Ubuntu.  However, if you already have Ubuntu installed, or if you installed in in Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), then go ahead and use it.

I prefer and recommend Fedora with the KDE Plasma desktop. [Link to Fedora with KDE Plasma](https://fedoraproject.org/kde/)

Other good choices include

* [Linux Mint](https://linuxmint.com/)  This will have the Cinnamon Desktop.
* [Pop! OS](https://system76.com/pop/?srsltid=AfmBOoqFil74T0vVsVAykpyUhI2Nol6Q3tBglEHqQM8P-nXn6dYbP5y9) Pop! is great for programming, but it is a bit challenging if you want to run Steam or play games.
* [Manjaro](https://manjaro.org/) This is a form of Arch that is generally safe for people who are new to Linux.
* Arch.  I don't recommend Arch Linux to new Linux users.  But if you have it and already know how to use it, Arch will work well for this course. 

## Install GDB and related software:

### Fedora and other dnf systems:

    sudo dnf nasm gcc gdb ld

### Debian, Ubuntu, Mint, and other apt systems:

    sudo install nasm gcc gdb ld

### Arch

A lot of arch users get touchy when you tell them how to install software.  Everything you need should be in the AUR repositories.

## IDE

- kate, other text editor that will support a terminal window
- ~~VS Code~~  (not recommended for `as` assembler)
- JetBrains -- I am not entirely sure, but they say it will work.
- vim (or vi) or emacs -- Only for the hardcore Linux enthusiasts
- - SASM  (maybe.  It has a role, but there are also problems)


## Testing the critical operations

- Check your editor or editors
- `as --version`
- `ld --version`
- kate (or whatever editor you are using).  Make sure the terminal window works.
- Check out SASM
- Check out ghex